docs: entity-manager written documentation PTL-1513 (#1951)
genesiscommunitysuccess/docs: docs/001_develop/03_client-capabilities/005_grids/002_entity-manager/01_entity-manager-grid.mdx

---
title: 'Grid configuration'
sidebar_label: 'Grid configuration'
id: entity-manager-grid
keywords: [grid configuration, entity-management, entity manager, table setup, customization, data grid, UI, frontend, grid options, user interface, data display, micro-front-ends]
tags:
  - entity management
  - frontend
  - micro-front-ends
  - profile management
  - ui
  - user management
  - web
  - grid configuration
  - entity manager
  - table setup
  - customization
  - data grid
  - grid options
  - user interface
  - data display
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> The Grid is a key component of the **Entity Management**, enabling you to display and manage data from back-end resources. It offers a flexible, structured layout where each row represents an entity, and each column represents an attribute of that entity. The grid can be easily configured to pull data from specified back-end resources and is automatically populated with relevant information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Entity Manager Grid is a key component of **Entity Management**, enabling you to display and manage data from back-end resources. It offers a flexible, structured layout where each row represents an entity, and each column represents an attribute of that entity. The grid can be easily configured to pull data from specified back-end resources and is automatically populated and updated by data from the backend resource.
```

Reviewer: `and updated by data from the backend resource` maybe this bit could be improve too. Impress that any changes made to the backend are automatically streamed to the client and reflected in the view

Author: I'll update the ending, but the beginning: "The Entity Manager Grid is a key component of **Entity Management**" - doesn't sound the best in my opinion

Author: Addressed in: [chore: addressed PR feedback PTL-1513](https://github.com/genesiscommunitysuccess/docs/pull/1951/commits/8e0a48c144037b54d8e8856d88f850cd48e063d9)

This section explains how to configure and customize the grid to suit your application's needs.

## Examples 

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this title is unnecessary in the case where the entire file is just a set of examples, same for the other pages too

Author: Done in [chore: addressed PR feedback PTL-1513](https://github.com/genesiscommunitysuccess/docs/pull/1951/commits/8e0a48c144037b54d8e8856d88f850cd48e063d9)

### Grid columns
If you want to control the appearance of the grid, use the `columns` attribute. This enables you to supply an array of `ColDef[]` properties to configure the columns that are displayed, their width and many other properties; these are the same properties that are used by the [Grid Pro](../003_grid-pro/index.mdx) component.

The example array below creates six columns, specifying the width of each one. 
- The `field` is the field in the data source.
- The `headerName` is the text displayed in the column heading.
- Three of the fields use `cellStyle` to control the alignment of the values displayed. 
- One field (whose column heading is "Status") also uses `cellStyle` to control the colour of the values displayed. 

```typescript

> const columnDefs: ColDef[] = [

Reviewer: can we have a kotlin section describing the table used here?

Author: [chore: addressed PR feedback PTL-1513](https://github.com/genesiscommunitysuccess/docs/pull/1951/commits/8e0a48c144037b54d8e8856d88f850cd48e063d9) - I added simple server configuration but in index.md for COUNTERPARTY table

Here we only have column configuration, it is focused only on client-side.
Later, when we unify the examples throughout the docs, we can change and improve them, but for now it seems to be enough.
